# LNRadar

A Core-Lightning plugin to probe the Lightning Network.
Every payment probe perfomed by LNRadar contains information about the state of
a subset of the lightning network, currently we are just able to deduce a lower
and upper bound on liquidity on the channels probed along a choosen path.
This information is gathered into an askrene layer called "lnradar" and it can
be used to improve real payments reliability by using with in combination
with xpay. For example:
```
lightning-cli -k xpay invstring=<some real payment invoice> layers='["lnradar"]'
```

# Quickstart

The basic usage can be done through the CLI helper, for example:
```
$ lightning-cli -- lnradar

A CLN plugin to probe the lightning network to estimate liquidity allocation.

Usage: lightning-cli -- lnradar [COMMAND]

Commands:
  testinvoice       Create an invoice that can be used to make a payment probe.
  testpayment       Make a single payment probe attempt to a desired destination.
  testpayment-loop  Make several payment probes in a loop.
  help              Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help  Print help
```

The `testinvoice` sub-command can be used to generate a *fake* invoice to perform a
payment probe. These invoices generated by lnradar can be safely paid using any
payment plugin, and no funds will be transfered with this action because there
is no known preimage to the payment hash generated. They are meant to fail at
the destination node with either `unknown_next_peer` or
`incorrect_or_unknown_payment_details`.

The `testpayment` sub-command can be used to make a single direct probe through
lnradar to a selected destination. lnradar uses askrene's `getroutes` method to
compute a path candidate. Internally lnradar will be able to gather the
liquidity information from this probe and save it into "lnradar" askrene layer.
A probe is said to be successfull if get an `unknown_next_peer` or
`incorrect_or_unknown_payment_details` at the destination node.

The `testpayment-loop` sub-command performs many consecutive payment probes to
the selected destination until either a probe successfully reaches the
destination or there no more available paths we could try.

# Installation

lnradar is a Core-Lightning (CLN) written in Rust. In order to add this plugin
to CLN the binary `lnradar` must first be built in this project.
Whith Rust [intalled](https://rust-lang.org/tools/install/) in your environemnt
run the following:
```
cargo build
```
This command will generate the plugin at the following path `./target/debug/lnradar`.

Then you may add the path to `lnradar` in your CLN configuration file, eg.
```
plugin=<your build directory>/target/debug/lnradar
```
Restart ligthningd and `lnradar` should be running.


# Settings

LNRadar can be configured through lightning's configuration file.
The following options are currently available:

- `lnradar-favorite-destination`: this option accepts multiple values, with it
  the user can specify a list of destination that will be probed by LNRadar
  regularly in the background with different random amounts. For example:
```
# ACINQ
lnradar-favorite-destination=03864ef025fde8fb587d989186ce6a4a186895ee44a926bfc370e2c366597a3f8f
# Wallet of Satoshi
lnradar-favorite-destination=035e4ff418fc8b5554c5d9eea66396c227bd429a3251c8cbc711002ba215bfc226
```

# Acknowledgement

This plugin is based on an earlier `paytest` plugin by @cdecker.
Thanks to @endothermicdev for heads up and discussions.
